# S3

## Buckets

S3 allows people to store objects (files) in 'buckets' (directories)
- must have a *globally unique name*
- defined at the region level
- naming convention:   
    - no uppercase
    - no underscore
    - 3-63 characters long
    - not an IP
    - must start with lowercase letter or number

## Objects

- Objects (files) have a key
- Key is the full path (highlighted below)
    - s3://my-bucket/`my_file.txt`
    - s3://my-bucket/`my_folder1/another_folder/my_file.txt`
- Key is composed of *prefix* + **object name**
    - s3://my-bucket/*`my_folder1/another_folder/`***`my_file.txt`**
- no concept of 'directories' within buckets
- just keys with very long names containing slashes (although UI makes it look like there are directories)
- object values are the content of the body:
    - max size of 5TB
    - uploading more than 5 GB, must use 'multi-part upload'
- metadata (list of text/key pairs - system or user metadata)
- tags (unicode key/value pair - up to 10) - useful for security/lifecycle
- versioned (if versioning is enabled)

### Hands on:

- S3 is a global console but not a global service.
- two ways to open bucket file. 
    1. 'object actions'->'open'
    2. use the public url - object must be set to public
- presigned URL provides login information in the url so that you can access the file when it isn't public

## Versioning

- files can be versioned
- enabled first at *bucket level*
- same key overwrite will increment the 'version'
- it is best practice to version buckets to
    - protect against unintended deletes
    - easy to roll back to previous versions
- any file not versioned prior to enabling versioning will have a version of 'null'
- suspending versioning does not delete previous versions

### hands on

- Versioning is edited in bucket properties. List versions adds a column to the item list to show the item versions.
- With versioning enabled, files aren't deleted - a delete marker is added to them. 
    - The delete marker has a version id to make it seem like the file is gone. 
    - If you delete the delete marker it will bring the item back. 
    - If you delete a specific version of an object, it is permanently deleted. 
    - Deleting the delete marker restores the file
- suspending keeps all previous versions, but new objects will not be created with a version

## Object Encryption

1. *SSE-S3*: encrypts S3 objects using keys handled and managed by AWS
    - server side encryption
    - AES-256 encryption type
    - must set header: 'x-amz-server-side-encryption':'AES256'
    - the header is what tells AWS which encryption type to use
2. *SSE-KMS*: leverage AWS key management service to manage encryption keys
    - server side encryption
    - KMS Advantages: user control + audit trails
    - must set header: 'x-amz-server-side-encryption':'aws:kms'
3. *SSE-C*: when you want to manage your own keys
    - S3 does not store the encryption key you provide
    - must use HTTPS
    - encryption key must be provided in HTTP headers for every HTTP request made
    - only done through the AWS CLI, cannot be done through the console
4. *Client side encryption*
    - encrypt objects before uploading them to S3
    - must decrypt the data yourself when retrieving from S3
    - customer fully managers the keys and encryption cycle

*It is important to understand which encryption type applies to different situations for the exam*

### Encryption in transit (SSL/TLS)

S3 exposes:
- *HTTP endpoint*: non-encrypted
- *HTTPS endpoint*: encryption in flight

Free to use either endpoint, however HTTPS is recommended. Most clients use HTTPS by default. HTTPS is mandatory for SSE-C

### Hands on

- encryption varies depending on version. 
- encryption setting is for a specific file and each specific version id.
- can enforce decryption by default across the entire bucket.

## Security

- user based security
    - *IAM Policies*: which API calls should be allowed for a specific user from IAM role
- resource based security
    - *Bucket Policies*: bucket wide rules from the S3 console allowing cross account access
    - *Object Access Control List* (ACL): finer grain
    - *Bucket Access Control List* (ACL): less common

IAM principal can access S3 object if:
- **the user IAM permissions allow it OR the resource policy allows it**
- **AND there's no explicit DENY policy**

### Bucket Policies
- json based policies
    - *resources*: buckets and objects
    - *actions*: set of API to Allow or Deny
    - *effect*: allow/deny
    - *principal*: account or user to apply the policy to
- use cases:
    - grant public access to the bucket
    - force objects to be encrypted at upload
    - grant access to another account (cross account)

### Bucket settings for block 
- block public access to buckets and objects granted through
    - new access control lists
    - any access control lists
    - new public bucket or access point policies
- block public and cross-account access to buckets and objects through *any* public bucket or access point policies
- settings were created to prevent company data leaks
- if you know your bucket should never be public, leave these on
- can be set at account level

### Other Security
- networking:
    - supports VPC endpoints
- logging and audit
    - s3 access logs can be stored in other s3 bucket
    - api calls can be logged in AWS CloudTrail
- user security
    - *MFA delete*: mfa can be required in versioned buckets to delete objects
    - *Pre Signed URLs*: URLs that are valid only for a limited time

### Bucket Policy hands on

- AWS policy generator can be used to generate bucket policies. 
- *ARN*: add a '/*' to end of bucket name to specify any objects within that bucket name.
- Configurations: if key is null, do this
- Use the statements to control access to the bucket objects.
- if the file is uploaded with a type that doesn't match, we'll 
- can set it to not be uploaded for example. new objects must meet the bucket policy.
- in permissions, can see some security options. eg. Block all public access.
- ACL isn't really in the exam.

## S3 Websites

- can host static websites and host on www
- url:
    - `<bucket-name>.s3-website-<AWS-region>.amazonaws.com`
    - `<bucket-name>.s3-website.<AWS-region>.amazonaws.com`
- if a 403 (forbidden) error, make sure the bucket policy allows public reads

### hands on

- just load a bucket with an `index.html` file in it
- also have an `errors.html` file
- in properties, enable `static website hosting`, will then have a public bucket endpoint. 
- need to double check public access to bucket - need a public access bucket policy, gives access to an entire bucket.

## CORS (Cross origin resource sharing)

*origin*: a scheme (protocol), host (domain) and port
    - eg. https://www.example.com (implied port 443 for HTTPS, 80 for HTTP)
- *web browser based mechanism to allow requests to other origins while visiting the main origin*
- same origin: http://www.example.com/app1 & http://www.example.com/app2
- different origins: https://www.example.com & https://www.other.example.com
- requests won't be fulfilled unless the other origin allows for the requests using CORS Headers

First web server visited is called the origin. Second web server with different URL is called the cross origin. Preflight request asks if origin is able to make requests, response explains allowed methods.

If a client for a cross-origin request on our S3 bucket, we need to enable the correct CORS headers.
Can allow a specific origin or for all (*)
- CORS headers defined on origin, not cross server 

*CORS is a common exam question*

### hands on

- make sure your bucket policy is for the correct ARN
- CORS settings are in the permissions of the s3 bucket, stored in json. n
- need to allow specific origins

## Consistency model

Strong consistency from Dec 2020

After a:
- successful write of a new object, or
- overwrite or delete of an existing object
any:
- subsequent read request immediately receives the latest version of the object (read after write consistency), or
- subsequent list request immediately reflects changes (list consistency)

This is available at no additional cost, without performance impact